_your zenodo badge here_

# Abeshu-etal_2022_Journal of Hydrology

**A new representation of water management for global hydrological models**

Guta Wakbulcho Abeshu<sup>1</sup>, Fuqiang Tian<sup>2</sup>, Hongchang Hu<sup>2</sup>, Yuan Zhuang<sup>2</sup>, 
Mohamad Hejazi<sup>3</sup>, Sean Turner<sup>3</sup>, Thomas Wild<sup>3</sup>, Mengqi Zhao<sup>4</sup>, 
A F M Kamal Chowdhury<sup>5</sup>, Chris Vernon<sup>3</sup>, and Hong-Yi Li<sup>1\*</sup>

<sup>1 </sup> Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, University of Houston, Houston, TX, 77204, US
<sup>2 </sup> Department of Hydraulic Engineering, Tsinghua University, Beijing, China
<sup>3 </sup> Joint Global Change Research Institute, Pacific Northwest National Laboratory, College Park, MD 20740, US
<sup>4 </sup> Pacific Northwest National Laboratory, Richland, WA 99354, US
<sup>5 </sup> Earth System Science Interdisciplinary Center (ESSIC), University of Maryland, College Park, MD 20740, US

\* corresponding author:  hongyili.jadison@gmail.com  

## Abstract
This study enhances an existing global hydrology model, Xanthos, by adding a new water management module, treating irrigation, hydropower, and flood-control reservoirs differently. We determine a unique operation rule for each of 3790 large reservoirs globally based on their primary purposes, i.e., hydropower, irrigation, flood-control or others. We apply the enhanced Xanthos globally at a 0.5-degree spatial resolution. The model performance is satisfactory in reproducing observed streamflow variability under normal and water scarcity conditions at 91 large river basins with good data availability. Hydropower reservoirs' simulated storage and release patterns are quite different from flood-control reservoirs, suggesting significant implications for freshwater resources management at the regional or larger scales. This new global water management modeling framework will allow for the assessment of future reservoir development and management from a coupled human-natural system perspective. 

## Journal reference
Abeshu, G.W., Fuqiang Tian, F., Hongchang Hu, H., Yuan Zhuang, Y., Hejazi, M., Sean Turner, S., Thomas Wild, T., Mengqi Zhao, M., Chowdhury, K., Vernon, C., and Li, H., A new water management module for global hydrologic models. Journal of Hydrology 

## Code reference
References for each minted software release for all code involved.  

These are generated by Zenodo automatically when conducting a release when Zenodo has been linked to your GitHub repository. The Zenodo references are built by setting the author order in order of contribution to the code using the author's GitHub user name.  This citation can, and likely should, be edited without altering the DOI.

If you have modified a codebase that is outside of a formal release, and the modifications are not planned on being merged back into a version, fork the parent repository and add a `.<shortname>` to the version number of the parent and construct your own name.  For example, `v1.2.5.hydro`.

Human, I.M. (2021, April 14). Project/repo:v0.1.0 (Version v0.1.0). Zenodo. http://doi.org/some-doi-number/zenodo.7777777

## Data reference

### Input data
The following are input data required to run the model

- **Forcing Data:**
In the study, we used gridded climatic data from the WATer and global CHange (WATCH; Weedon et al., 2011) dataset from 1971 to 2001. The global monthly datasets include precipitation, maximum temperature, relative humidity and minimum temperature. DataHub: https://www.isimip.org/gettingstarted/input-data-bias-adjustment/details/3/

- **Water demand and water use data:**
Monthly water demand and consumptive water use data for various sectors at a 0.5-degree resolution are from Huang et al. (2018), which are available from 1971 to 2010. DataHub: https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.1209296

- **Reservoirs Data:**
Global reservoir data are obtained from the GRanD dataset (Lehner et al., 2011). The GRanD database we use here only considers reservoirs with storage capacity values greater than 0.1 km3. Reservoirs with missing storage capacity and those identified with purposes such as tide control are dropped, reducing the total GranD reservoirs from 6862 to 6847. DataHub: https://doi.org/10.7927/H4HH6H08 

- **Streamflow Data:**
Observed streamflow data for model parameter indentifcation and validation are obtained from the Global Runoff Data Center (GRDC)DataHub: https://www.bafg.de/GRDC 

### Output data
Reference for each minted data source for your output data.  For example:

Abeshu, G.W. (2022). My output dataset name. DataHub: https://doi.org/some-doi-number

## Contributing modeling software
| Model | Version | Repository Link | DOI |
|-------|---------|-----------------|-----|
| Xanthos | version | https://github.com/JGCRI/xanthos | https://doi.10.5281/zenodo.5177210 |


## Reproduce my experiment
Fill in detailed info here or link to other documentation that is a thorough walkthrough of how to use what is in this repository to reproduce your experiment.


1. Install the software components required to conduct the experiement from [Contributing modeling software](#contributing-modeling-software)
2. Download and install the supporting input data required to conduct the experiement from [Input data](#input-data)
3. Run the following scripts in the `workflow` directory to re-create this experiment:

| Script Name | Description | How to Run |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `step_one.py` | Script to run the first part of my experiment | `python3 step_one.py -f /path/to/inputdata/file_one.csv` |
| `step_two.py` | Script to run the last part of my experiment | `python3 step_two.py -o /path/to/my/outputdir` |

4. Download and unzip the output data from my experiment [Output data](#output-data)
5. Run the following scripts in the `workflow` directory to compare my outputs to those from the publication

| Script Name | Description | How to Run |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `compare.py` | Script to compare my outputs to the original | `python3 compare.py --orig /path/to/original/data.csv --new /path/to/new/data.csv` |

***File Modification***\
Check each file listed in [Table 5](#table5) and modify every directory within those files to the directory that holds your data. 
<a name="table5"></a>
**Table 5:** Files to be modified to run the model.

| Model | Programming Language | Files to be Modified |
|---|:-:|---|
| Xanthos | Python 3.3+ | under xanthos/example: <br /> (1) pm_abcd_mrtm_wm.ini <br /> under xanthos/calibrate: <br /> (1) calibrate_abcd_wm.py <br /> under xanthos/runoff: <br /> (1) abcd_wm.py |


## Reproduce my figures
Use the scripts found in the `figures` directory to reproduce the figures used in this publication.

| Script Name | Description | How to Run |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `generate_figures.py` | Script to generate my figures | `python3 generate_figures.py -i /path/to/inputs -o /path/to/outuptdir` |
